---
title: Create Advanced Encoding Workflows with Workflow Designer
description: Learn about how to create advanced encoding workflows with Workflow Designer.
author: IngridAtMicrosoft
ms.author: inhenkel
ms.service: media-services
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 11/01/2022
---

<!-- ms.assetid: 004815f2-0761-4706-87a1-675ba36e0322 -->

# Create Advanced Encoding Workflows with Workflow Designer

[!INCLUDE [media services api v2 logo](./includes/v2-hr.md)]

## Overview
The **Workflow Designer** is a Windows desktop tool that is used to design and build custom workflows for encoding with **Media Encoder Premium Workflow**.
By using the power of the workflow designer tool, you can design and create complex workflows that will run in **Media Encoder Premium**.

Workflows can include customer decision logic and branching based on the input source file's properties.
You can create workflows with overridable properties and dynamic values to make even the most complex encoding tasks easy to repeat and customize in the cloud.

Example workflows that you can create include:

* Decision based workflows that inspect the source content for resolution and encode only the desired output tracks.  This is helpful by eliminating the wasted tracks that would be generated by upscaling the source content inadvertently.
* Multiple input files can be used to support captions, overlays and stitching together content.

This tool can also be used to modify any of our [published workflows](media-services-workflow-designer.md#existing_workflows).

> [!NOTE]
> To get your copy of the Workflow Designer tool, please contact mepd@microsoft.com.

Once a workflow file is created, it can be uploaded as an Asset, and then be used for encoding media files. For information on how to encode with **Media Encoder Premium Workflow** using **.NET**, see [Advanced encoding with Media Encoder Premium Workflow](media-services-encode-with-premium-workflow.md).

## <a id="existing_workflows"></a>Modify existing workflows
The default [published workflows](media-services-workflow-designer.md#existing_workflows) can be modified using the designer tool.

The following videos demonstrate how to use the designer.

### Day 1 – Getting Started
Day 1 video covers:

* Designer Overview
* Basic Workflows – "Hello World"
* Creating multiple output MP4 files for use with Azure Media Services streaming


### Day 2
Day 2 video covers:

* Varying Source file scenarios – handling audio
* Workflows with advanced Logic
* Graph stages

### Day 3
Day 3 video covers:

* Scripting inside of Workflows/Blueprints
* Restrictions with the current Encoder
* Q&A
